# InternshipExperience
Hii guys. Let me tell you a little about my experience during the internship program at Harian Kompas, Kompas Gramedia.
May 2021 for the first time I heard there was a program from the Ministry of Education and Culture for Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka (MBKM). Do you know what MBKM is? MBKM is one of the programs available for PTN and PTS students who have the desire to study for a maximum period of three semesters off campus. Interesting right? There are several programs related to the MBKM, such as Internship, Independent Study, Teaching Campus, and others.
I was so interested, I immediately registered for an internship on the Independent Campus website. I tried to apply to Kompas Gramedia as Software Quality Assurance, taking a series of tests such as solving case studies, empathy tests, and interviews. Praise God, I passed every test. Grateful and of course very proud.

Started my internship journey in August 2021. I gained a lot of knowledge during my internship. Teach about API automation, Web Automation, to Android Automation. I also learned to use postman when it comes to API automation. How is the response given and the results are then automated.
You must have heard of Selenium Webdriverio, right? So I use the framework for web automation. Creating features, page object models, and step definitions of the test cases that have been made is very fun. Finding the UI Automator Location and running the project is an interesting thing. Unlike android automation, I need to install Genymotion first for the emulator I'm using. But over all, the method used with web automation is almost the same. It's just that, I also did an installation for Appium so that I can inspect elements. One of the things that made me proud during my internship was of course being able to run multiplatform automation, as well as run automation with Docker. Plunging into positions and jobs that have never been done before is not an easy thing. Besides receiving knowledge from a mentor, you must also be willing to learn to explore and try it yourself.
Em, please introduce my mentor, Mas Damarananta. He is the head of Quality Engineer.
And don't be satisfied with just receiving knowledge from mentors, if you have problems, can you really ask other seniors, instead of being stuck yourself?
During my internship I also often asked my seniors, who of course understood and understood more. Asking is not wrong, it's actually the first step to be more courageous and develop. Thank you to mentors and seniors who have provided useful guidance and knowledge.
I am happy to share my experiences as an intern at Harian Kompas, Kompas Gramedia.
